input/pages/quality-improvement-ecosystem.md, before:

#### Quality Improvement Ecosystem
{: #quality-improvement-ecosystem}

As shown in step 1 in the diagram below, the Quality Improvement Ecosystem
begins with information, preferably evidence-based from research, public health
surveillance, and data mining and other analyses performed by third parties such
as academic institutions or payers. Such information indicates existing status and knowledge about a
given clinical topic. In step 2, stakeholders, such as professional societies,
public health and governmental bodies, and healthcare insurers have various
methods for publishing such information to assure awareness among consumers,
healthcare practitioners, and healthcare organizations about what is known and
suggested methods for managing the clinical topic. Ideally, suggested management
efforts are captured and documented in guidelines based on collaboration among
clinical subject matter experts, terminologists, informaticists, clinicians and
consumers.  In step 3, these clinical guidelines are translated into clinical
decision support (CDS) artifacts to incorporate relevant, evidence based, and patient-specific clinical
recommendations and actions directly within clinical workflow. To adequately
impact clinical care for clinicians and patients requires local implementation
activities as shown in Step 4.  In implementation, clinicans may deviate from processes 
reflected in CDS where appropraite given a patient's unique clinical characteristics. 
Ideally, the clinical guidelines and CDS include methods for evaluating what 
successful implementation means, (i.e., whether the clinical care ultimately 
provided included processes that addressed the intent of the guideline and if it achieved the desired outcomes). 
Further information pn CDS and its optimization care delivery can be found [here](https://www.healthit.gov/sites/default/files/page/2018-04/Optimizing_Strategies_508.pdf).
In step 5, to close the loop and enable continuous improvement, the results of such measurement
analytics must be reported for aggregate review. Step 6, "Reporting" serves the
purpose of evaluating clinical performance and outcomes for healthcare
organizations, for public health and for payers.

<details open>
<summary>

<b>Figure 1-1: The Quality Improvement Ecosystem Diagram</b>

</summary>

{% include img.html img="Export_new.png" %}

</details>

> Stakeholders such as public health have ongoing needs for
quality improvement at the point of care. Every effort should be made to
establish a capable distributed rule processing environment in FHIR. For
additional information about idealized processes for moving evidence and
information from guidelines to CDS and measurement, refer to an effort by the
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) called
[Adapting Clinical Guidelines for the Digital Age](https://www.cdc.gov/ddphss/clinical-guidelines/index.html).

Commit message:

FHIR-32726 Clarify that quality measurement is often done internally by provider systems.

input/pages/quality-improvement-ecosystem.md, after:

#### Quality Improvement Ecosystem
{: #quality-improvement-ecosystem}

As shown in step 1 in the diagram below, the Quality Improvement Ecosystem
begins with information, preferably evidence-based from research, public health
surveillance, and data mining and other analyses performed by third parties such
as academic institutions or payers. Such information indicates existing status and knowledge about a
given clinical topic. In step 2, stakeholders, such as professional societies,
public health and governmental bodies, and healthcare insurers have various
methods for publishing such information to assure awareness among consumers,
healthcare practitioners, and healthcare organizations about what is known and
suggested methods for managing the clinical topic. Ideally, suggested management
efforts are captured and documented in guidelines based on collaboration among
clinical subject matter experts, terminologists, informaticists, clinicians and
consumers.  In step 3, these clinical guidelines are translated into clinical
decision support (CDS) artifacts to incorporate relevant, evidence based, and patient-specific clinical
recommendations and actions directly within clinical workflow. To adequately
impact clinical care for clinicians and patients requires local implementation
activities as shown in Step 4.  In implementation, clinicans may deviate from processes 
reflected in CDS where appropraite given a patient's unique clinical characteristics. 
Ideally, the clinical guidelines and CDS include methods for evaluating what 
successful implementation means, (i.e., whether the clinical care ultimately 
provided included processes that addressed the intent of the guideline and if it achieved the desired outcomes). 
Further information pn CDS and its optimization care delivery can be found [here](https://www.healthit.gov/sites/default/files/page/2018-04/Optimizing_Strategies_508.pdf).
In step 5, to close the loop and enable continuous improvement, the results of such measurement
analytics must be reported for aggregate review. Step 6, "Reporting" serves the
purpose of evaluating clinical performance and outcomes, whether it be internally 
for health care organizations, or for third parties such as public health or for payers.  

<details open>
<summary>

<b>Figure 1-1: The Quality Improvement Ecosystem Diagram</b>

</summary>

{% include img.html img="Export_new.png" %}

</details>

> Stakeholders such as public health have ongoing needs for
quality improvement at the point of care. Every effort should be made to
establish a capable distributed rule processing environment in FHIR. For
additional information about idealized processes for moving evidence and
information from guidelines to CDS and measurement, refer to an effort by the
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) called
[Adapting Clinical Guidelines for the Digital Age](https://www.cdc.gov/ddphss/clinical-guidelines/index.html).
